# NLP
natural language processing &amp; text mining project


Project 21: Automatic Summarization  

We shall consider structured document containing a title, abstract and a set of subsections. We would like to build a text summarizer such that tracks important keywords in the document. For this purpose, the first step is identify these keywords.  

Assume the initial input is given as html document (choose an example of your own), we hypothesize that important keywords are initially contained in the words of titles, abstract and possibly titles of subsections of the document. Suggest a simple python script that inputs an html document and outputs the lists of words in the title, abstract and title of section/subsections.  

Write down a simple python script that allows you to output the histogram of word frequency in the document, excluding the stopwords (see examples in online NLTK book). Use SpaCy named-entity tagger to identify person-named entities and organization-named entities in the document.  

We would like the summarizer contains at least the ten most frequent word and many named-entities. For this purpose, use the following heuristic to construct the summarizer. i) Identify the first sentence in the document that contains the highest frequent word. If such sentence is located in the title or abstract of the document, then extract this sentence to be included in the summarizer. Otherwise, we extract the first sentence in the document that contains both this highest frequent word and named-entity. If there is no sentence that contains this highest frequent word and named-entity (person or organization), then extract the first sentence that contains this highest frequent word. Repeat this process for each of the remaining top ten frequent word in the document. Finally, output the underlined sentences while respecting the order in which the sentences appear in the document.  

We would like the choice of keywords not based on histogram frequency but using the open source RAKE https://www.airpair.com/nlp/keyword-extraction-tutorial. Repeat the previous process of selecting the sentences that are associated to the ten first keywords generated by RAKE. Comment on the quality of this summarizer based on your observation 

It is also suggested to explore alternative implementations with larger number of summarization approaches implemented- https://github.com/miso-belica/sumy. Show how each of the implemented summarizer behaves when inputted with the same document you used in previous case.  

Run the algorithms in 5), 4) and 3) on the CNN/Dailymail dataset (see previous project description), and report the ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-3 performances. 

Design a simple GUI that allows the user to input a text or a link to a document to be summarized and output the summarizer according to 5), 4 and 3) 
